samples: bluetooth: add ANCS client sample (#2975)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/peripheral_ancs_client/README.rst

.. _peripheral_ancs_client:

Bluetooth: Peripheral ANCS client
#################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Peripheral ANCS client sample demonstrates how to use the :ref:`ancs_client_readme`.

Overview
********

The ANCS client sample implements an Apple Notification Center Service client. This client receives iOS notifications and is therefore a Notification Consumer. It can be connected with a Notification Provider, typically an iPhone or some other Apple device, which functions as ANCS server.

When the sample is connected to a Notification Provider, it receives and prints incoming notifications on the UART.

> Notifications can have positive and negative actions associated with them, depending on the app that is sending the notification. For example, a notification for an incoming call is usually associated with the positive action to answer the call and the negative action to reject it. After receiving a notification, the available actions are indicated by flags on UART. The sample can perform the positive / negative action as response to the notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notifications can have positive and negative actions associated with them, depending on the application that is sending the notification. For example, a notification for an incoming call is usually associated with the positive action to answer the call and the negative action to reject it. After receiving a notification, the available actions are indicated by flags on UART. The sample can perform the positive or negative action as a response to the notification.
```

Author: Done

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_and_cpuappns, nrf52840dk_nrf52840, nrf52833dk_nrf52833, nrf52dk_nrf52832

> The sample also requires a device running a ANCS Server to connect with (for example, an iPhone which runs iOS, or a Bluetooth Low Energy dongle and nRF Connect for Desktop).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample also requires a device running an ANCS Server to connect with (for example, an iPhone which runs iOS, or a Bluetooth Low Energy dongle and nRF Connect for Desktop).
```

User interface
**************

LED 1:

>    * Blinks with a period of 2 seconds, duty cycle 50%, when the main loop is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Blinks every two seconds, duty cycle 50%, when the main loop is running.
```

Author: Done

LED 2:
   * On when connected.

Button 1:
   * Request iOS notification attributes (content) on UART.

Button 2:
   * Request iOS app attributes on UART.

Button 3:

>    * Perform a positive action as response to the last received notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Perform a positive action as a response to the last received notification.
```

Author: Done

Button 4:

>    * Perform a negative action as response to the last received notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Perform a negative action as a response to the last received notification.
```

Author: Done

Building and running
********************

> .. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_ancs_client`

Reviewer: This does not really have an effect, but please have an empty line after the heading.

Author: Done

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

.. _peripheral_ancs_client_testing:

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, you can test it either by connecting to an iOS device or by using `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ that emulates an ANCS Server.

Testing with an iOS device
--------------------------

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kit.
#. Select the device in the iOS settings -> Bluetooth menu and connect.
#. Observe that notifications that are displayed in the iOS notification tab also show up on the UART from the sample.

> #. Press Button 1 to retrieve the notification attributes and observe that you receive, among other information, the app identifier for the last received notification. For example, if you got a notification from the Calendar app and request the app identifier, it is "com.apple.mobilecal".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Press **Button 1** to retrieve the notification attributes and observe that you receive, among other information, the application identifier for the last received notification. For example, if you got a notification from the Calendar application and request the application identifier, it is "com.apple.mobilecal".
```

Author: Done

> #. Press Button 2 to retrieve the app attributes and observe that you receive the display name for the app identifier from the previous step. For example, requesting the app attributes for "com.apple.mobilecal" yields "Calendar".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Press **Button 2** to retrieve the application attributes and observe that you receive the display name for the application identifier from the previous step. For example, requesting the application attributes for "com.apple.mobilecal" yields "Calendar".
```

Author: Done

> #. If the notification has a flag for a positive or negative action, perform the notification action with Button 3 or Button 4, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. If the notification has a flag for a positive or negative action, perform the notification action with **Button 3** or **Button 4**, respectively.
```

Author: Done

Testing with nRF Connect for Desktop
------------------------------------

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kit.
#. Start `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ and select the connected dongle that is used for communication.

> #. Go to the **Server setup** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the :guilabel:`Server setup` tab.
```

Author: Done

>    Click the dongle configuration and select **Load setup**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Click the dongle configuration and select :guilabel:`Load setup`.
```

Author: Done

   Load the ``ANCS_central.ncs`` file that is located under :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_ancs_client` in the |NCS| folder structure.

> #. Click **Apply to device**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click :guilabel:`Apply to device`.
```

Author: Done

> #. Go to the **Connection Map** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the :guilabel:`Connection Map` tab.
```

Author: Done

>    Click the dongle configuration and select **Security parameters**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Click the dongle configuration and select :guilabel:`Security parameters`.
```

>    Check **Perform Bonding**, and click **Apply**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Check :guilabel:`Perform Bonding`, and click :guilabel:`Apply`.
```

Author: Done

Send an iOS notification to the application
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following table shows the format of a notification that you can send to the example application:

   +------------------+---------------+--------------------------+
   | Field            | Example value | Interpretation           |
   +==================+===============+==========================+
   | Event ID         | 0             | Notification added       |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------------+
   | Flags            | 18            | Positive/negative action |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------------+
   | Category         | 06            | Email                    |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------------+
   | Category count   | 02            |                          |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------------+
   | Notification UID | 01 02 03 04   | 67305985 (0x4030201)     |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------------+

> 1. In nRF Connect, set the value of ANCS Notification Source (characteristic 0x120D) to ``00 18 06 02 01 02 03 04`` and click Update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In nRF Connect, set the value of ANCS Notification Source (characteristic 0x120D) to ``00 18 06 02 01 02 03 04`` and click :guilabel:`Update`.
```

Author: Done.

Besides, ANCS Notification Source is modified to a GUI label 'Apple Notification Source'. It aligns with nRF Connect for Desktop.

      UID:         67305985
      Flags:
       Positive Action
       Negative Action

Perform a notification action
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The received notification has two flags: Positive Action and Negative Action. This means that you can perform these two actions on the notification.

The following table shows the format of the message that the application must send back to perform a notification action:

   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Field            | Example value | Interpretation              |
   +==================+===============+=============================+
   | Command ID       | 2             | Perform notification action |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Notification UID | 01 02 03 04   | 67305985 (0x4030201)        |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Action           | 00            | Positive                    |
   |                  |               |                             |
   |                  | 01            | Negative                    |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+

> 1. Press Button 3 to perform a positive action and verify that the ANCS Control Point (0xD8F3) is updated to ``02 01 02 03 04 00``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press **Button 3** to perform a positive action and verify that the ANCS Control Point (0xD8F3) is updated to ``02 01 02 03 04 00``.
```

Author: Done.

Besides, ANCS Control Point is modified to a GUI label 'Apple Control Point'. It aligns with nRF Connect for Desktop.

> #. You can also press Button 4 and observe that the server receives a negative action ``02 01 02 03 04 01``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. You can also press **Button 4** and observe that the server receives a negative action ``02 01 02 03 04 01``.
```

Author: Done

   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Field            | Example value | Interpretation              |
   +==================+===============+=============================+
   | Command ID       | 0             | Get notification attributes |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Notification UID | 01 02 03 04   | 67305985 (0x4030201)        |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Attribute ID     | 00            | App identifier              |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Attribute ID     | 01            | Title                       |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Length           | 20 00         | 0x0020                      |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Attribute ID     | 03            | Message                     |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Length           | 20 00         | 0x0020                      |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+

> Note that the example application will request all existing attribute types, not only a subset.

Reviewer: Make this a note if you want it to stand out.

Author: IMO, this note does not need extra attention.

   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Length           | 03 00         | 0x0003                      |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Data             | 6E 52 46      | "nRF"                       |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Attribute ID     | 03            | Message                     |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Length           | 02 00         | 0x0002                      |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Data             | 35 32         | "52"                        |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Attribute ID     | 00            | App identifier              |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Length           | 03 00         | 0x0003                      |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+
   | Data             | 63 6F 6D      | "com"                       |
   +------------------+---------------+-----------------------------+

> 1. Press Button 1 to request notification attributes for the iOS notification that was received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press **Button 1** to request notification attributes for the iOS notification that was received.
```

Author: Done

#. In nRF Connect, verify that the ANCS Control Point (0xD8F3) is updated to ``00 01 02 03 04 00 01 20 00 02 20 00 03 20 00 04 05 06 07``.

> #. Respond to the request by sending two notification attributes: the title and the message. To do this, first set the Data Source (characteristic 0xC6E9) in the Server to ``00 01 02 03 04 01 03 00 6E 52 46 03 02 00 35 32``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Respond to the request by sending two notification attributes: the title and the message. Set the Data Source (characteristic 0xC6E9) in the Server to ``00 01 02 03 04 01 03 00 6E 52 46 03 02 00 35 32``.
```

Author: Done.

Besides, Data Source is modified to a GUI label 'Apple Data Source'. It aligns with nRF Connect for Desktop.

#. The application will print the received data on UART. Verify that the UART output is as follows::

      Title: nRF
      Message: 52

> #. Update the Data Source again with the app identifier ``00 03 00 63 6F 6D``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Update the Data Source again with the application identifier ``00 03 00 63 6F 6D``.
```

Author: The app wording is kept.

#. Verify that the notification is received and the UART output is as follows::

      App Identifier: com

> Retrieve app attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieve application attributes
```

Author: The app wording is kept.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> With the app identifier, you can request attributes of the app that sent the notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the application identifier, you can request attributes of the application that sent the notification.
```

Author: The app wording is kept.

> The following table shows the format of a request to retrieve app attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the format of a request to retrieve application attributes:
```

Author: The app wording is kept.

   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | Field            | Example value | Interpretation     |
   +==================+===============+====================+
   | Command ID       | 1             | Get app attributes |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | App identifier   | 6D 6F 63 00   | "com" + '\0'       |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | Attribute ID     | 0             | Display name       |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+

> The following table shows the format of a response that contains the requested app attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the format of a response that contains the requested application attributes:
```

Author: The app wording is kept.

   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | Field            | Example value | Interpretation     |
   +==================+===============+====================+
   | Command ID       | 1             | Get app attributes |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | App identifier   | 6D 6F 63 00   | "com" + '\0'       |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | Attribute ID     | 0             | Display name       |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | Length           | 04 00         | 0x0004             |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | Data             | 4D 61 69 6C   | "Mail"             |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+

> 1. Press Button 2 to request app attributes for the app with the app identifier "com" (the last received app identifier).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press **Button 2** to request application attributes for the application with the application identifier "com" (the last received application identifier).
```

Author: Done

#. In nRF Connect, verify that the ANCS Control Point (0xD8F3) is updated to ``01 63 6F 6D 00 00``.

> #. Respond to the request by sending the app attribute. To do this, set the Data Source (characteristic 0xC6E9) in the Server to ``01 63 6F 6D 00 00 04 00 4D 61 69 6C``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Respond to the request by sending the application attribute. Set the Data Source (characteristic 0xC6E9) in the Server to ``01 63 6F 6D 00 00 04 00 4D 61 69 6C``.
```

Author: Done

#. The application will print the received data on UART. Verify that the UART output is as follows::

      Display Name: Mail

Disconnect
^^^^^^^^^^

> 1. Disconnect the device in nRF Connect.
> #. As bond information is preserved by nRF Connect, you can immediately reconnect to the device by clicking the Connect button again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disconnect the device in nRF Connect.
As the bond information is preserved by nRF Connect, you can immediately reconnect to the device by clicking the :guilabel:`Connect` button again.
```

Author: Done

   | Command ID       | 1             | Get app attributes |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | App identifier   | 6D 6F 63 00   | "com" + '\0'       |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | Attribute ID     | 0             | Display name       |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | Length           | 04 00         | 0x0004             |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+
   | Data             | 4D 61 69 6C   | "Mail"             |
   +------------------+---------------+--------------------+

#. Press **Button 2** to request app attributes for the app with the app identifier "com" (the last received app identifier).
#. In nRF Connect, verify that the :guilabel:`Apple Control Point` is updated to ``01 63 6F 6D 00 00``.
#. Respond to the request by sending the app attribute.
   Set the :guilabel:`Apple Data Source` value in the Server to ``01 63 6F 6D 00 00 04 00 4D 61 69 6C``.
#. The application will print the received data on UART. Verify that the UART output is as follows::

      Display Name: Mail

Disconnect
^^^^^^^^^^

> #. Disconnect the device in nRF Connect.

Reviewer: I wanted to move the numbered list. To me, this does not seem to be two separate steps. The second sentence just states how easily you can reconnect as nRF Connect still has the bond information.

Author: Done
